Hello, this is the final talk Q&A video for the course 550400. My name is Zhenhan Zhao and I will be the person responsible for earning some bonus score for my team blackrock.
Ok, so the question we chose from the presentation cubic is Discuss the immunization strategy, convexity and duration in relation to your data. Discuss all variables.
Well, thanks for the question, we did explain a little about terminology we use in the progress report, but now that you asked, we think it¡¯ll be very necessary to elaborate a little more about the strategy.

In finance, the immunization strategy or others may call interest rate immunization is a strategy that matches the durations of assets and liabilities thereby minimizing the impact of interest rates on the net worth.  So a change in interest rates will not affect the value of a portfolio. The strategy is a usually used in pension fund or asset management areas, to ensure that the value of a pension fund's or a firm's assets will increase or decrease in exactly the opposite amount of their liabilities, thus leaving the value of the pension fund's surplus or firm's equity unchanged, regardless of changes in the interest rate. In our case, we want to make sure that Poway School District¡¯s liability for the following twenty years is unharmed from interest rate volatility as the district council wanted to minimize any budget surprise. The obligations the district will have to face last for two decades so it is very likely that the interest rate will change quite a bit in such a long term, so this is why we chose to use immunization strategy in the first place. Specifically, as we¡¯ve discussed why we have to use dummy data for the calculation, we want to use immunization to make sure all the payments in the eight years will not be affected by interest rate. One thing we need to clarify again is interest rate plays a significant role in cost planning because the semiannual payment is a cost for the district council, this cost discounted to present value will be added to the budget plan before the actual payment date. 

In detail, why choose convexity and duration? The immunization strategy can be accomplished by several methods, including cash flow matching, duration matching, and volatility and convexity matching. It can also be accomplished by trading in bond forwards, futures, or options. As using forwards and futures is way complicated to conduct the strategy, in our analysis, we strived to do the cash flow matching, duration and convexity matching. Well, all the data in our case is fixed including the dummy data and the coupon rate for treasury bonds and notes, so we omit the volatility matching. In calculating the duration, we consider three major variables, the present value of the cash payment for ith payment, the interest rate and the present value of all the cash payments. Duration measures the sensitivity of the present value P to a change in interest rates. In calculating the convexity, we also consider the same three variables but we use a different algorithm. Convexity measures how the duration of a bond changes as the interest rate changes. Convexity measures the curvature of the relationship between duration and interest rate.  In calculus it is the second derivative of the P/Y function and the derivative of duration. Convexity tells about the curvature of the P/Y function for a security. So, in other words, it accounts for the amount of price sensitivity to a change in interest rates that duration does not measure.